README.md, before:

### This script downloads everything you need today to develop software in Haskell
(except remote documentation)

That is: **stack infrastracture** and **hackage packages**.

In order to establish the **offline mirror** you need a *http server* to serve
downloaded files.

### Usage
Run [mirror.sh](mirror.sh)
with the following options or none accepting defaults.

Options (by argument number):

1. Custom mirror directory (default: "mirror" in current path).
2. Custom address of http server (default: "http://localhost:3000").

After successful run it provides:
* mirror directory that is ready to be served by a http server (like nginx,
apache, mighttpd2, lighttpd, etc)
* generated "config.yaml" needed to be placed on clients here:
"~/.stack/config.yaml"

Once you set up web server use *stack* without internet connection!

The script also performs:
* checking downloaded files integrity
* skipping of downloaded checked files on consequent runs

### Requirements
* bash + core-utils (tee, cut, test, sort, comm, printf, etc...)
* grep
* sed
* git
* wget
* tar
* gzip
* sha1sum

### Issues
* Currently *stack* does not correcly support `setup-info:` field in
"config.yaml". Related issue: [#1](https://github.com/AleXoundOS/haskell-stack-mirror-script/issues/1).
This means that in order to run `stack setup`
you have to supply a path to "mirror/stack-setup-mirror.yaml" manually with
`--setup-info-yaml` option. So if running on server side it can be:
```
stack setup --setup-info-yaml /srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror/stack-setup-mirror.yaml
```
On client side:
```
stack setup --setup-info-yaml http://custom-server-address:12345/srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror/stack-setup-mirror.yaml
```

* Bash script can be error-prone with it's imperative nature and intended to be
as a temporary solution until a good Haskell program will be developed.

* *stack* setup yaml is parsed in a pretty tricky way as well as request fields
in urls. Mirror directory does not retain original url path structure. So in
theory collisions may happen.

* Only Unix-like systems are supported directly. Running bash script in other
environments may require special treatment. Sorry I don't have a suitable
working non-Unix system and not so confident to adjust script to them without
testing.

* The list of required programs to be installed prior to running the script
is not short. Though these are all pretty standard on any Unix-like OS.

* As of 2017-08-03 there is one broken package on Hackage: hermes-1.3.4.3, that
has missing files on the server, thus causing some warning messages to show.
It's ok.

### Tested configuration
Tested on Arch Linux x86_64 (2017-03-03) with nginx.
<details><summary>nginx configuration example (/etc/nginx/nginx.conf) assuming
that you put mirror directory into "/srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror"</summary>
```nginx
events {
    worker_connections  1024;
}
http {
    include       mime.types;
    default_type  application/octet-stream;
    sendfile        on;
    server {
        listen       3000;
        server_name  haskell-stack-mirror;
        location / {
            root /srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror;
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

As of 2017-08-03 a fully downloaded mirror directory uses 25&nbsp;GiB of space.
Approximate time it takes to verify all files integrity ~15&nbsp;minutes on a
2.2Ghz&nbsp;CPU. In case there are no new files it takes less than a minute to
check for updates.

### TODO
Investigate the possibility of an uncomplicated way to mirror remote Hackage
documentation (and maybe other).

### Inspiration and thanks
This project is inspired by
[offline-stack](https://github.com/ndmitchell/offline-stack) project and this
[google groups thread](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/haskell-stack/LHG9DSrz8k8).
Special thanks to [Neil Mitchell](https://github.com/ndmitchell) !

### Warning!
Please, do not _overuse_ the downloading procedure from scratch.
Excessive downloads will unreasonably increase load on servers.

Commit message:

Ability to download multiple packages simultaneously.
Multiplatform shebang.

Updating readme with NixOS specific information.

Fixing section headers.

Adding performace and usage title.

Detecting available cores on Linux, defaulting on other systems.

README.md, after:

### This script downloads everything you need today to develop software in Haskell
(except remote documentation)

That is: **stack infrastracture** and **hackage packages**.

In order to establish the **offline mirror** you need a *http server* to serve
downloaded files.

### Usage
Run [mirror.sh](mirror.sh)
with the following options or none accepting defaults.

Options (by argument number):

1. Custom mirror directory (default: "mirror" in current path).
2. Custom address of http server (default: "http://localhost:3000").

After successful run it provides:
* mirror directory that is ready to be served by a http server (like nginx,
apache, mighttpd2, lighttpd, etc)
* generated "config.yaml" needed to be placed on clients here:
"~/.stack/config.yaml"

Once you set up web server use *stack* without internet connection!

The script also performs:
* checking downloaded files integrity
* skipping of downloaded checked files on consequent runs

### Requirements
* bash + core-utils (tee, cut, test, sort, comm, printf, etc...)
* grep
* sed
* git
* wget
* tar
* gzip
* sha1sum

### Issues
* Currently *stack* does not correcly support `setup-info:` field in
"config.yaml". Related issue: [#1](https://github.com/AleXoundOS/haskell-stack-mirror-script/issues/1).
This means that in order to run `stack setup`
you have to supply a path to "mirror/stack-setup-mirror.yaml" manually with
`--setup-info-yaml` option. So if running on server side it can be:
```
stack setup --setup-info-yaml /srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror/stack-setup-mirror.yaml
```
On client side:
```
stack setup --setup-info-yaml http://custom-server-address:12345/srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror/stack-setup-mirror.yaml
```

* Bash script can be error-prone with it's imperative nature and intended to be
as a temporary solution until a good Haskell program will be developed.

* *stack* setup yaml is parsed in a pretty tricky way as well as request fields
in urls. Mirror directory does not retain original url path structure. So in
theory collisions may happen.

* Only Unix-like systems are supported directly. Running bash script in other
environments may require special treatment. Sorry I don't have a suitable
working non-Unix system and not so confident to adjust script to them without
testing.

* The list of required programs to be installed prior to running the script
is not short. Though these are all pretty standard on any Unix-like OS.

* As of 2017-08-03 there is one broken package on Hackage: hermes-1.3.4.3, that
has missing files on the server, thus causing some warning messages to show.
It's ok.

### Tested configuration

Tested on

#### Arch Linux x86_64 (2017-03-03) with nginx.

<details><summary>nginx configuration example (/etc/nginx/nginx.conf) assuming
that you put mirror directory into "/srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror"</summary>
```nginx
events {
    worker_connections  1024;
}
http {
    include       mime.types;
    default_type  application/octet-stream;
    sendfile        on;
    server {
        listen       3000;
        server_name  haskell-stack-mirror;
        location / {
            root /srv/http/haskell-stack-mirror;
        }
    }
}
```
</details>

#### NixOS 17.09

Resulted "config.yaml" shall be extended with NixOS specific features, for example:
```
nix:
  enable: true
  packages: []
```

#### Performance and disk-space usage

As of 2017-08-03 a fully downloaded mirror directory uses 25&nbsp;GiB of space.
Approximate time it takes to verify all files integrity ~15&nbsp;minutes on a
2.2Ghz&nbsp;CPU. In case there are no new files it takes less than a minute to
check for updates.

### TODO
Investigate the possibility of an uncomplicated way to mirror remote Hackage
documentation (and maybe other).

### Inspiration and thanks
This project is inspired by
[offline-stack](https://github.com/ndmitchell/offline-stack) project and this
[google groups thread](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/haskell-stack/LHG9DSrz8k8).
Special thanks to [Neil Mitchell](https://github.com/ndmitchell) !

### Warning!
Please, do not _overuse_ the downloading procedure from scratch.
Excessive downloads will unreasonably increase load on servers.
